hey everybody I'm Mikey G and today
we'll be taking a closer look at the bow
port easel now bow port claims that this
ease will allow you to paint on large
sized canvases even in windy conditions
when you're dealing with an outdoor
easel a lot of the times the easel well
because the way it is it's portable
easel is a little flimsy it won't
necessarily stand up to a lot of
different conditions uneven terrain
winds your brush and what we want to do
today is look at the resilience of the
boatport easel and see just how much it
can take before it tips over so that's
we're going to test today how stable is
the bow poor diesel and how much wind
can it take for tips over and well prove
it so the first thing we're gonna do is
test it with a smaller sized canvas on
it and see how well that holds up so
I've set up a 12 by 16 on the boat pour
diesel and we're gonna simulate some
wind conditions and to help me with that
I brought along my biggest fan now what
I'm gonna do is I'm going to set this on
the lowest setting and use my little
friend anemometer wind wind measure
device and see just how much wind is
hitting it in miles per hour and see how
stable it is he's giving me kilometers
nobody knows what that means
my anemometer is reading six six and a
half miles an hour overall I think it's
pretty stable so let's make a little
windier now we're measuring around eight
eight and a half miles per hour so a
little bit more push but the easel seems
to be remaining solid alright now we're
measuring around
12 miles an hour get a little windy I
might say a little bit windier than I
might want to be painting outside but
the reisel seems to be remaining
absolutely solid very reliable tool all
right I think we've effectively tested
it at a small scale but let's see what
happens when we put a large sized canvas
on here now the bow port says it can
hold up to a 48 inch by 60 inch canvas
and that's pretty much a sail
so we've fitted our bow port with a 48
by 60 gallery wrapped canvas which I
must say in itself is a bit of a feat
for an outdoor easel
now we're gonna see how well it does
under the wood D conditions on its low
setting we're clocking in around 6 to 7
miles per hour and so far so good let's
kick it up a notch now we're looking at
it between 9 and 10 miles an hour
getting a little gusty but nothing too
serious
not bad all right we're clogged in
between 12 and 13 miles an hour now I
don't know if this would be necessarily
the most comfortable of pain situations
but our easel and canvas or meeting
solid and in place we ain't going
nowhere
how's my hair is it windblown so we've
seen that the both parties will for all
intents purposes does what it says it's
going to do it holds a large sized
canvas it can take windy conditions but
I just get the feeling I'm cheating this
a little bit I mean after all we are in
a studio it is a controlled environment
we have a level floor I think we need to
go all out we're gonna bring this
outside put it on an uneven terrain
we'll bring the fan with us a really
long extension cord and put on the
highest setting and see how it does out
in the field we've got a reisel set up
it's you know fairly uneven terrain I've
got my large sized canvas out here and
you might notice my little red bucket
now the reason for the bucket is is that
beaufort says that if it is too windy
you can always add a sandbag or a weight
to it to help stabilize it so we're
gonna see if i need to go that route or
not once i keep the fan on it'll be on
full blast and we'll see how well my
easel stands up
so getting with speeds between 12 or 13
miles an hour and the Cantonese will
seem to be holding their own just fine
best part the best part is we didn't
even need the bucket that's pretty
impressive so there you have it the boat
port feel diesel I have to say I'm
pretty impressed the boat port is a
portable easel designed for plenary use
if you look at the French easels out
there and other plenty of type easels
out there none of them can hold the
canvas this large let alone support
these kind of wind conditions so I think
we've done a pretty good job proving it
and we'll see you again next time